Digital caliper and Micrometer
 The digital calliper, shortly called calliper, is the most common precision measuring instrument for length dimensions used in mechanical engineering. It consists of a fixed and a movable rail. The measuring unit with a display and the operating buttons are located on the movable rail. The calliper can be used to measure external and internal dimensions of parts as well as the depth of bores or grooves. The accuracy of a calliper is between 0.05 mm to 0.10 mm. The measured value display shows 0.01 mm. The last digit is to be rounded. The measuring unit has several buttons: –The OFF/ON-button for starting and finishing the measurement. –The mm/inch-button to choose the reading. –The zero-button for setting the zero-point in any position. With the digital calliper you can run the following applications: Accurate measurement of dimensions External and internal dimensions as well as bore depths can be measured with the various measuring devices on the calliper. Measurement of deviating dimensions. The deviation of a workpiece from the nominal dimension is determined by comparison with a parallel gauge block. Measuring of fits. The clearance or oversize is directly displayed by a comparison measurement. 

Micrometer (screw gauge). The digital micrometer is a precision measuring device for workpiece dimensions. It is used when the measuring accuracy of the calliper is not sufficient. Micrometers have a measuring accuracy of 0.01 mm. The displayed value has three digits after the decimal point (figure). It is given rounded to two digits. The micrometer consists of a bow-shaped frame with insulating cladding for touching. The measuring range is indicated on the bracket, e. g. 0 to 25 mm. The measurement is made between an anvil and the movable measuring spindle. It is approached with a turnable knurl and applied to the workpiece with slight force using the slip clutch ratchet. The measured value is shown on a display. The high measuring accuracy can be achieved only under controlled measuring conditions: –The test surfaces of the workpiece must be clean and burr-free. –During the measuring process, the measuring spindle must be applied to the workpiece with the ratchet until it slips through. –The spindle must be at right angle to the measured surfaces. Digital micrometers have selector switches that are used to make measurements similar to those made with callipers. See page 14. –Measurements of dimensions and with zero setting. –Measurement of fit dimensions with direct display. Micrometers are sensitive instruments. They must be handled and stored with care. This will maintain their precision. The accuracy must be checked regularly with parallel gauge blocks. The dimensional reference temperature of 20 °C must be observed.
